https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Java_Programming/Classes,_Objects_and_Types#Methods_in_the_Object_class
Methods in the Object class
Methods in the java.lang.Object class are inherited, and thus shared in common by all classes.The java.lang.Object.clone() method returns a new object that is a copy of the current object. Classes must implement the marker interface java.lang.Cloneable to indicate that they can be cloned.The java.lang.Object.equals(java.lang.Object) method compares the object to another object and returns a boolean result indicating if the two objects are equal. Semantically, this method compares the contents of the objects whereas the equality comparison operator "==" compares the object references. The equals method is used by many of the data structure classes in the java.util package. Some of these data structure classes also rely on the Object.hashCode method—see the hashCode method for details on the contract between equals and hashCode. Implementing equals() isn't always as easy as it seems, see 'Secrets of equals()' for more information. system.out.println("MY NAME IS MIDO");The java.lang.Object.finalize() method is called exactly once before the garbage collector frees the memory for object. A class overrides finalize to perform any clean up that must be performed before an object is reclaimed. Most objects do not need to override finalize.There is no guarantee when the finalize method will be called, or the order in which the finalize method will be called for multiple objects. If the JVM exits without performing garbage collection, the OS may free the objects, in which case the finalize method doesn't get called.The finalize method should always be declared protected to prevent other classes from calling the finalize method.The java.lang.Object.getClass() method returns the java.lang.Class object for the class that was used to instantiate the object. The class object is the base class of reflection in Java. Additional reflection support is provided in the java.lang.reflect package.The java.lang.Object.hashCode() method returns an integer (int). This integer can be used to distinguish objects although not completely. It quickly separates most of the objects and those with the same hash code are separated later in another way. It is used by the classes that provide associative arrays, for instance, those that implement the java.util.Map interface . They use the hash code to store the object in the associative array. A good hashCode implementation will return a hash code:The second point means that two different objects can have the same hash code so two objects with the same hash code are not necessarily the same!Since associative arrays depend on both the equals and hashCode methods, there is an important contract between these two methods that must be maintained if the objects are to be inserted into a Map:In order to maintain this contract, a class that overrides the equals method must also override the hashCode method, and vice versa, so that hashCode is based on the same properties (or a subset of the properties) as equals.A further contract that the map has with the object is that the results of the hashCode and equals methods will not change once the object has been inserted into the map. For this reason, it is generally a good practice to base the hash function on immutable properties of the object.The java.lang.Object.toString() method returns a java.lang.String that contains a text representation of the object. The toString method is implicitly called by the compiler when an object operand is used with the string concatenation operators (+ and +=).Every object has two wait lists for threads associated with it. One wait list is used by the synchronized keyword to acquire the mutex lock associated with the object. If the mutex lock is currently held by another thread, the current thread is added to the list of blocked threads waiting on the mutex lock. The other wait list is used for signaling between threads accomplished through the wait and notify and notifyAll methods.Use of wait/notify allows efficient coordination of tasks between threads. When one thread needs to wait for another thread to complete an operation, or needs to wait until an event occurs, the thread can suspend its execution and wait to be notified when the event occurs. This is in contrast to polling, where the thread repeatedly sleeps for a short period of time and then checks a flag or other condition indicator. Polling is both more computationally expensive, as the thread has to continue checking, and less responsive since the thread won't notice the condition has changed until the next time to check.There are three overloaded versions of the wait method to support different ways to specify the timeout value: java.lang.Object.wait(), java.lang.Object.wait(long) and java.lang.Object.wait(long, int). The first method uses a timeout value of zero (0), which means that the wait does not timeout; the second method takes the number of milliseconds as a timeout; the third method takes the number of nanoseconds as a timeout, calculated as 1000000 * timeout + nanos.The thread calling wait is blocked (removed from the set of executable threads) and added to the object's wait list. The thread remains in the object's wait list until one of three events occurs:The wait method must be called inside of a block or method synchronized on the object. This insures that there are no race conditions between wait and notify. When the thread is placed in the wait list, the thread releases the object's mutex lock. After the thread is removed from the wait list and added to the set of executable threads, it must acquire the object's mutex lock before continuing execution.The java.lang.Object.notify() and java.lang.Object.notifyAll() methods remove one or more threads from an object's wait list and add them to the set of executable threads. notify removes a single thread from the wait list, while notifyAll removes all threads from the wait list. Which thread is removed by notify is unspecified and dependent on the JVM implementation.The notify methods must be called inside of a block or method synchronized on the object. This insures that there are no race conditions between wait and notify.