https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Java_Programming/Collection_Classes#Collection_classes
Collection - Collection classes
There is no direct implementation for the java.util.Collection interface. The Collection interface has five sub interfaces.A set collection contains unique elements, so duplicates are not allowed. It is similar to a mathematical Set. When adding a new item to a set, the set calls the method int hashCode() of the item and compare it to the hash code of all the already inserted items. If the hash code has not been found, the item is added. If it is, the set now call the boolean equals(Object obj); method with all the set items. If all calls returns false, the item is inserted. If not, the item is not inserted.Set cannot have duplicates in it. You may wonder how duplicates are detected when we are adding an object to the Set. We have to see if that object exists in the Set or not. It is not enough to check the object references, the objects' values have to be checked as well.To do that, fortunately, each java object has the boolean equals(Object obj), method available inherited from Object. You need to override it. That method will be called by the Set implementation to compare the two objects to see if they are equal or not.There is a problem, though. What if I put two different type of objects to the Set. I put an Apple and an Orange. They can not be compared. Calling the equals() method would cause a ClassCastException. There are two solutions to this:Note:The SortedSet interface is the same as the Set interface plus the elements in the SortedSet are sorted. It extends the Set Interface. All elements in the SortedSet must implement the Comparable Interface, furthermore all elements must be mutually comparable.Note that the ordering maintained by a sorted set must be consistent with equals if the sorted set is to correctly implement the Set interface. This is so because the Set interface is defined in terms of the equals operation, but a sorted set performs all element comparisons using its compare method, so two elements that are deemed equal by this method are, from the standpoint of the sorted set, equal.The SortedSet interface has additional methods due to the sorted nature of the 'Set'. Those are:In a list collection, the elements are put in a certain order, and can be accessed by an index. Duplicates are allowed, the same element can be added twice to a list. It has the following implementations:Each node is related to an item of the linked list. To remove an element from the linked list the pointers need to be rearranged. After removing Node 2: