https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Java_Programming/Math#Math_methods
Mathematical functions - Math methods
There are several methods in the Math class that deal with exponential functions.The power method, double Math.pow(double, double), returns the first parameter to the power of the second parameter. For example, a call to Math.pow(2, 10) will return a value of 1024 (210).The Math.exp(double) method, a special case of pow, returns e to the power of the parameter. In addition, double Math.expm1(double) returns (ex - 1). Both of these methods are more accurate and convenient in these special cases.Java also provides special cases of the pow function for square roots and cube roots of doubles, double Math.sqrt(double) and double Math.cbrt(double).Java has no general logarithm function; when needed this can be simulated using the change-of-base theorem.double Math.log(double) returns the natural logarithm of the parameter (not the common logarithm, as its name suggests!).double Math.log10(double) returns the common (base-10) logarithm of the parameter.double Math.log1p(double) returns ln(parameter+1). It is recommended for small values.The trigonometric methods of the Math class allow users to easily deal with trigonometric functions in programs. All accept only doubles. Please note that all values using these methods are initially passed and returned in radians, not degrees. However, conversions are possible.The three main trigonometric methods are Math.sin(x), Math.cos(x), and Math.tan(x), which are used to find the sine, cosine, and tangent, respectively, of any given number. So, for example, a call to Math.sin(Math.PI/2) would return a value of about 1. Although methods for finding the cosecant, secant, and cotangent are not available, these values can be found by taking the reciprocal of the sine, cosine, and tangent, respectively. For example, the cosecant of pi/2 could be found using 1/Math.sin(Math.PI/2).Java provides inverse counterparts to the trigonometric functions: Math.asin(x), and Math.acos(x), Math.atan(x).In addition, hyperbolic functions are available: Math.sinh(x), Math.cosh(x), and Math.tanh(x).To convert between degree and radian measures of angles, two methods are available, Math.toRadians(x) and Math.toDegrees(x). While using Math.toRadians(x), a degrees value must be passed in, and that value in radians (the degree value multiplied by pi/180) will be returned. The Math.toDegrees(x) method takes in a value in radians and the value in degrees (the radian value multiplied by 180/pi) is returned.The absolute value method of the Math class is compatible with the int, long, float, and double types. The data returned is the absolute value of parameter (how far away it is from zero) in the same data type. For example:In this example, result will contain a value of 3.These methods are very simple comparing functions. Instead of using if...else statements, one can use the Math.max(x1, x2) and Math.min(x1, x2) methods. The Math.max(x1, x2) simply returns the greater of the two values, while the Math.min(x1, x2) returns the lesser of the two. Acceptable types for these methods include int, long, float, and double.