https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Java_Programming/Streams
Streams
The most basic input and output in Java (System.in and System.out fields that have been used in the Basic I/O) is done using streams. Streams are objects that represent sources and destinations of data. Streams that are sources of data can be read from, and streams that are destinations of data can be written to. A stream in Java is an ordered sequence of bytes of undetermined length. Streams are ordered and in sequence so that the java virtual machine can understand and work upon the stream. Streams are analogous to water streams. They exist as a communication medium, just like electromagnetic waves in communication. The order or sequence of bytes in a Java stream allow the virtual machine to classify it among other streams.Java has various inbuilt streams implemented as classes in the package java.io like the classes of System.in and System.out. Streams can be classed as both input and output streams. All Java streams are derived from Input Stream (java.io.InputStream) and Output Stream (java.io.OutputStream) classes. They are abstract base classes meant for other stream classes. The System.in is the input stream class derivative and analogically System.out is the output counterpart. Both are basic classes used to directly interact with input and output through console, similarly follows System.err. Also Java has streams to communicate across different parts of a program or even among threads. There are also classes that "filter" streams, changing one format to another (e.g. class DataOutputStream, which translates various primitive types to byte streams).It is a characteristic of streams that they deal only in one discrete unit of data at a time, and different streams deal with different types of data. If one had a stream that represented a destination for bytes, for example, one would send data to the destination one byte at a time. If a stream was a source of byte data, one would read the data a byte at a time. Because this is the only way to access data from a stream, in this latter case, we wouldn't know when we had read all the data from the stream until we actually got there. When reading a stream, one generally has to check each unit of data each read operation to see if the end of the stream has been reached (with byte streams, the special value is the integer -1, or FFFF hex).